\documentclass[12pt, std]{article}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\begin{document}

Definition:  Let $X$ be a set and $\mathbb{R}$ the real numbers. The
function $d: X \times X \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ is called a
\textit{metric} for $X$ provided:

\qquad 1.  $d(x,y) \ge 0$ for all $(x,y) \in X \times X$;

\qquad 2.  $d(x,y) = 0$ if and only if $x=y$;

\qquad 3.  $d(x,y) = d(y,x)$ for all $(x,y) \in X \times X$;

\qquad 4.  $d(x,z) \le d(x,y) + d(y,z)$ for all $x, y, z$ in $X$.

\

Definition: Suppose that $X$ is a set, $x \in X$ and $d$ is a metric
for $X$. Then the set $B_{\epsilon}(x) = \{ t \in X | \ d(t,x) <
\epsilon \}$ is called the $\epsilon$-ball around $x$.

\

Observation: you should notice that if $X$ is a topological space
and $d$ is a metric for $X$. Then
 $\mathcal{B} = \{ B_{\epsilon}(x) | x \in X, \epsilon > 0 \}$
 satisfies the hypothesis of theorem 2.2 and so is a basis for $X$.

 \

Definition: $(X,d)$ is said to be a metric space means that $X$ is a
topological space generated by the basis $\mathcal{B} = \{
B_{\epsilon}(x) | x \in X, \epsilon > 0 \}$.

\

Theorem 3.1.  A metric space is Hausdorff.

\

Theorem 3.2.  A metric space is first countable.

\

Theorem 3.3  A metric space is separable if and only it it is
completely separable.

\

Definition.  The topological space $X$ is said to be
\textit{regular} iff for each point $x \in X$ and each closed subset
$H \subset X$ of $X$ not containing $x$, that there exist disjoint
open sets $U$ and $V$ so that $x \in U$ and $H \subset V$.

\

Theorem 3.4.  A metric space is regular.

\

Exercise 3.1.  Show that the following ``metrics'' all produce the
standard topology on $\mathbb{R}^2$.

\qquad a.  $d((x_1,y_1), (x_2, y_2)) = \sqrt{ (x_1 - x_2)^2 + (y_1,
-y_2)^2}$, this is called the standard metric;

\qquad b. $d((x_1,y_1), (x_2, y_2)) = |x_1 - x_2| + |y_1, -y_2|$,
this is called the taxicab metric;

\qquad c.  $d((x_1,y_1), (x_2, y_2)) = Min(|x_1 - x_2|, |y_1,
-y_2|)$.

[Hint: In each case sketch a picture of the basic open sets.]

\

Exercise 3.2.  Suppose that $X$ is a space and $d_1$ and $d_2$ are
two metrics for $X$.  Then $d_1$ and $d_2$ produce the same topology
if and only if for each point $p$ and for positive number $\epsilon$
there are numbers $r$ and $s$ so that:  $\{ x | d_1(x,p) < r \}
\subset \{ x | d_2(x,p) < \epsilon \}$ and $\{ x | d_2(x,p) < s \}
\subset \{ x | d_1(x,p) < \epsilon \}$.


Definition.  The space $X$ is said to me normal if and only if for
each pair of disjoint closed sets $H$ and $K$ there exist disjoint
open sets $U$ and $V$ so that $H \subset U$ and $K\subset V$.

\

Theorem 3.5.  If $X$ is a metric space then $X$ is normal.

\

Theorem 3.6.  Let $X$ be a topological space.

\qquad a. Suppose that for each pair of points $a$ and $b$ that
there exists a continuous function from $X$ into $[0,1]$ so that
$f(a) = 0$ and $f(b) = 1$.  Then $X$ is Hausdorff.

\qquad b.  Suppose that if $a$ is a point and $B$ is a closed set
not containing $a$ then there exists a continuous function from $X$
into $[0,1]$ so that $f(a) = 0$ and $f(B) = 1$.  Then $X$ is
regular.

\qquad c.  Suppose that for each pair of disjoint closed sets $A$
and $B$ that there exists a continuous function from $X$ into
$[0,1]$ so that $f(A) = 0$ and $f(B) = 1$.  Then $X$ is normal.

\

[Notes.  These (3.6 a-c) really are not hard once you look at them
for awhile.

3.6 b.  This is the definition of completely regular.  To find a
space that is completely regular but not regular is hard.

3.6 c. is actually an if and only if theorem; but the other
direction is harder.

There is an example of a normal non-metric space.]

\

Theorem 3.7.  Suppose that $X$ and $Y$ are topological spaces and
there is a continuous, 1-1 and reversibly continuous onto function
$f: X \rightarrow Y$.  Then:

\qquad a. If $X$ is Hausdorff, then so is $Y$,

\qquad b. If $X$ is regular, then so is $Y$,

\qquad c. If $X$ is normal, then so is $Y$.

\

Hand-in homework, due Friday September 23: Exercise 3.2 and prove Theorems 3.1, 3.2, 3.5, 3.6 and
3.7.






















\end{document}
